TrustedTypes: Function() constructor + eval() (#42462)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/eval/index.md

### Parameters

- `script`
  - : A {{domxref("TrustedScript")}} instance or string representing a JavaScript expression, statement, or sequence of statements.
    The expression can include variables and properties of existing objects. It will be parsed as a script, so [`import`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) declarations (which can only exist in modules) are not allowed.

### Return value

The completion value of evaluating the given code. If the completion value is empty, {{jsxref("undefined")}} is returned.
If `script` is not a {{domxref("TrustedScript")}} or string primitive, `eval()` returns the argument unchanged.

### Exceptions

- {{jsxref("SyntaxError")}}
  - : The `script` parameter cannot be parsed as a script.
- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}

>   - : `script` is passed a string when [Trusted Types](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API) are [enforced by a CSP](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API#using_a_csp_to_enforce_trusted_types) and no default policy is defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : `script` is a string when [Trusted Types](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API) are [enforced by a CSP](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API#using_a_csp_to_enforce_trusted_types) and no default policy is defined.
```

> The methods also throws any exception that occurs during evaluation of the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method also throws any exception that occurs during evaluation of the code.
```

Passing carefully constrained data instead of arbitrary code is a good idea in general. For example, an extension designed to scrape contents of web-pages could have the scraping rules defined in [XPath](/en-US/docs/Web/XML/XPath) instead of JavaScript code.

> ### Security considerations

Reviewer: The first paragraph of the "Never use direct eval()!" section weirdly doesn't refer to this section at all. There should be some kind of integration there.

### Using TrustedScript

To mitigate the risk of XSS, we should always assign `TrustedScript` instances to the `script` parameter.
We also need to do this if we're enforcing trusted types for other reasons and we want to allow some script sources that have been permitted (by `CSP: script-src`).

Trusted types are not yet supported on all browsers, so first we define the [trusted types tinyfill](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API#trusted_types_tinyfill).
This acts as a transparent replacement for the trusted types JavaScript API:

```js
if (typeof trustedTypes === "undefined")
  trustedTypes = { createPolicy: (n, rules) => rules };
```

Next we create a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy")}} that defines a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy/createScript", "createScript()")}} method for transforming input strings into {{domxref("TrustedScript")}} instances.

For the purpose of this example we'll assume that we have a function `transformedScript()` that defines our tranformation/filtering logic.

```js
const policy = trustedTypes.createPolicy("script-policy", {
  createScript(input) {
    const transformed = transformedScript(input); // Our filter method
    return transformed;
  },
});
```

> Then we use the `policy` object to create a `trustedScript` object from a potentially unsafe input string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we use the `policy` object to create a `TrustedScript` object from a potentially unsafe input string:
```

```js
// The potentially malicious string

> // We won't be including untrustedScript in our scriptAllowList array

Reviewer: "scriptAllowList" is only referred to here, there's no explanation of it.

Author: ```suggestion
```

const untrustedScript = "alert('Potentially evil code!');";

// Create a TrustedScriptURL instance using the policy
const trustedScript = policy.createScript(untrustedScript);
```

> The `trustedScriptURL` property can now be used in `eval()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TrustedScript` object can now be passed to `eval()`:
```
